---
title: HTML DOM Client
---

For simple websites, we've prepared a simple JavaScript library that reduces overhead of
implementing details and expose easy to use HTML5 API based on **custom attributes** or **classes**.

With this library, you don't have to worry about managing session, cookies or displaying
proper button / elements based on current authentication state.

:::caution

This library works only for classic static websites (like WordPress) that are rendered on server side. For
JavaScript applications, you need to use API directly.

:::

## Installation

You can install library through package manager of your choice or load directly from CDN. 
Go to https://www.npmjs.com/package/mimeeq-auth-html-client for more installation details.

:::note
You still need to generate and add authentication embed code for you site to enable core functionality.
You can do this in your Admin Panel under Settings -> Login Code.
:::

## Login Button

Using HTML attribute:

```html
<button mimeeq-login>Log in</button>
```

Using class name:

```html
<button class="mimeeq-login">Log in</button>
```

## Logout Button

Using HTML attribute:

```html
<button mimeeq-logout>Log out</button>
```

Using class name:

```html
<button class="mimeeq-logout">Log out</button>
```

## Profile Button

Using HTML attribute:

```html
<button mimeeq-profile>My profile</button>
```

Using class name:

```html
<button class="mimeeq-profile">My profile</button>
```

## Modular Configurator Button

Sometimes, you might need a button that opens modular configurator on click. 
Of course, you can do this directly via our API or using [this](guides-modular.md) example,
but we've also made it easier for you:

Using custom attribute:
```html
<button mimeeq-configurator-button>Open configurator</button>
```

Using class name:
```html
<button class="mimeeq-configurator-button">Open configurator</button>
```

:::note
You need to have embed code for your configurator added to your website. This code can be 
generated in Admin Panel.
:::

## Authentication URL

If you would like to have direct authentication URL that opens login modal automatically,
use following:

`https://your-domain.com/?auth=mimeeq`

## Configurator URL

This library automatically exposes shareable configurator URLs when you're accessing
URL generated by modular configurator modal.

## Session Management

This library takes care of entire session management for you. To hide or display 
DOM elements based on user authentication state, use following:

- DOM elements hidden from guests: 
    - Data Attribute: `[mimeeq-auth-off]`
    - Class Name: `.mimeeq-auth-off`
    
- DOM elements hidden from logged in users:
    - Data Attribute: `[mimeeq-auth-on]`
    - Class Name: `.mimeeq-auth-on`
    
The display of login, logout and profile buttons is working out of the box, without
any extra actioning required.

## Caveats

To avoid CSS flickering issue caused by JavaScript working asynchronously, you might need 
to consider some extra custom CSS in the `<head>` section of your site.

```php
<style>
    <?php if($_COOKIE['mimeeq-auth']): ?>
    [mimeeq-login] { display: none !important; }
    <?php else: ?>
    [mimeeq-logout] { display: none !important; }
    <?php endif ?>
</style>
```
